# Proser: Peripheral Blood Smear Interpretation

## Description

This is a peripheral blood smear interpretation support tool designed to improve efficiency and standardization. It generates an initial interpretation based on lab values and provides standardized methods for reporting findings visualized on microscopy. There are microspherocytes, microcytes, and teardrop cells present. 

## Useage:
- Initial smear interpretation text is automatically generated from laboratory data
- Smear findings can be selected through dropdown menus for each cell line
    - These can be added in organized prose through one of two ways:
        1. Refresh: the entire smear interpretation text is re-generated taking into account the selected items on the dropdown menu
        2. Copy: to the right of each dropdown is a "copy" button, this will copy a sentence containing the selected findings to the system clipboard. These can then be added through ctrl-V, right click -> Paste, or Edit->Paste
- F2 can navigate between "***" character blocks 
- The text of the interpretation can be copied to the system clipboard for export

## Limitations
-Real time data (<24 hours approximately) is not available at this time 
-Lookback for labs, except hemoglobin electrophoresis, is 1 year
-Look back for hemoglobin electrophoresis is all time
-Look back for medications is 1 year
-Medications only include oral iron supplementation (send us other examples as you see them)

## Disclaimer:
-This program does not replace clinical thinking
-All information should be reviewed throughly before use

## Demonstration 

A working example of this project can be found here: https://ajloza.github.io/PeripheralBloodSmear/

This shows PROSER on example patient data. The lab results fields have been configured to be editable for this demonstration version. This allows values to be modified to view the changes in program output. Lab values are **not** editable in the production version but have been made so here to show the range of responses generated by the tool.

### Usage:
  - View responses to lab abnormalities:
    - click on the numeric value of any lab and modify its value to outside the reference range (reference ranges are shown for each lab)
    - after modifying all desired values, click "Reinitialize from Current Values"
  - Add smear findings:
    - use the multiselect dropdown menus to select smear findings
    - use one of the two fillowing methods to add the text to the interpreation
      - 1. Click "Refresh". This will regenerate the complete interpretation text inserting the smear findings in the pre-defined locations, but overwriting any added text.
      - 2. Click "Copy" next to the dropdown menu. This will add the text to the system clipboard allowing the user to insert where desired and preserving any edits.

### Limitations:
 - The ability to edit lab values allows the user to explore the range of responses, but user edited lab values are not validated for internal consistency or [physiologic plausibility. Please take this into account when interpreting the output for edited lab values.
 - For example:
   - the differential % values can be modified to sum to greater than 100%
   - The values of hemoglobin and hematocrit are usually highly correlated but could be modified to create non-plausible differences (for example anemia-range hemoglobin with elevated hematocrit)

